## What are Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE) and ZigBee Protocol for an IoT? What is SDN (Software Defin Networking)?

**Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE)**:
BLE is a wireless communication technology introduced in 2012. It's a key technology enabling the growth of IoT devices, providing wireless connection for many of IoT’s most critical applications. BLE operates with ultra-low power, making it suitable for industries such as consumer electronics, healthcare, and logistics. It's designed for ultra-low power consumption rather than high throughput. Data communication with an LE radio happens in short bursts that do not need to be very frequent.

**ZigBee Protocol**:
ZigBee is a Personal Area Network task group with low rate task group 4. It's a technology of home networking. ZigBee is an open, global, packet-based protocol designed to provide an easy-to-use architecture for secure, reliable, low power wireless networks. It's a standard that addresses the need for very low-cost implementation of Low power devices with Low data rates for short-range wireless communications. ZigBee networks use Mesh Topology, which gives a separate link for every device pair in the Network.

**Software Defined Networking (SDN)**:
SDN is a networking architecture approach that enables the control and management of the network using software applications. It allows IT administrators to manage and provision network services from a single location. SDN provides better network connectivity, faster data sharing, better deployment of applications, and better security. SDN is the separation of the control functions from the forwarding functions, which enables greater automation and programmability in the network.

