## Discuss various data categories and its properties. What are the 5V characteristics of bigdata?
The various categories of data:

1. **Categorical Data**: This refers to a form of information that can be stored and identified based on their names or labels. It is a type of qualitative data that can be grouped into categories instead of being measured numerically. Categorical data often includes values and observations that can be categorized or grouped. More specifically, there are two kinds of categorical data:
    - **Nominal Data**: This is a type of data that consists of categories that can’t be ordered or ranked. Some examples of nominal data are symbols, words, letters, and the gender of a person.
    - **Ordinal Data**: This is a category of data that has a natural order. Clothing sizes are one example of this type of data (small, medium, and large are not measurable differences, but they are clearly ordered to show size comparisons).

2. **Numerical Data**: This deals with numeric values on which we can apply mathematical operations – height, fruits in a basket, kids in a school. Although they seem similar, here’s something else to keep in mind – numerical data can be continuous or discrete. The difference is that we can split continuous data further into smaller units, and they still make sense. However, this is not possible with discrete data, as dividing them into smaller units will give us unreasonable values.

Now, let's discuss the 5V characteristics of big data:

1. **Volume**: The name Big Data itself is related to an enormous size. Big Data is a vast 'volumes' of data generated from many sources daily, such as business processes, machines, social media platforms, networks, human interactions, and many more.
2. **Velocity**: Velocity describes how rapidly the data is generated and how quickly it moves. This data flow comes from sources such as mobile phones, social media, networks, servers, etc.
3. **Variety**: Big Data can be structured, unstructured, and semi-structured that are being collected from different sources. Data will only be collected from databases and sheets in the past, But these days the data will comes in array forms, that are PDFs, Emails, audios, SM posts, photos, videos, etc.
4. **Veracity**: Veracity means how much the data is reliable. It has many ways to filter or translate the data. Veracity is the process of being able to handle and manage data efficiently.
5. **Value**: Value is an essential characteristic of big data. It is not the data that we process or store. It is valuable and reliable data that we store, process, and also analyze.

